[Core] Admin policy enforcement plugin (#3966)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/cloud-setup/policy.rst

.. _advanced-policy-config:

> Admin Policy Enforcement

Reviewer: Now that I think about it, "launch policy" is also appropriate, wdyt? Not asking for a rename, just an idea...

Author: Launch policy might be a bit inaccurate, since it is not only for launching but also for tasks execution.

========================

> SkyPilot allows admins to enforce policies on users' SkyPilot usage by applying
> custom validation and mutation logic on user's task and SkyPilot config.
> 
> In short, admins offers a Python package with a customized inheritance of SkyPilot's
> ``AdminPolicy`` interface, and a user just needs to set the ``admin_policy`` field in
> the SkyPilot config ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to enforce the policy to all their
> tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot provides an **admin policy** mechanism that admins can use to enforce certain policies on users' SkyPilot usage. An admin policy applies
custom validation and mutation logic to a user's tasks and SkyPilot config.

Example usage:

  - Adds custom labels to all tasks [Link to below, fix case]
  - Always Disable Public IP for AWS Tasks [Link to below]
  - Enforce Autostop for all Tasks [Link to below]
 
To implement and use an admin policy:

- Admins writes a simple Python package with a policy class that implements SkyPilot's
``sky.AdminPolicy`` interface; 
- Admins distributes this package to users;
- Users simply set the ``admin_policy`` field in
the SkyPilot config file ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` for the policy to go into effect.
```

As I write this I realize right now users may still forget to install the policy module. Maybe it's a good idea to add a Tip box: saying in the future, SkyPilot may provide a client-server architecture so that a centralized server can install and enforce such admin policies.

Overview
--------

User-Side
~~~~~~~~~~

To apply the policy, a user needs to set the ``admin_policy`` field in the SkyPilot config
``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to the path of the Python package that implements the policy.
For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    admin_policy: mypackage.subpackage.MyPolicy

.. hint::

    SkyPilot loads the policy from the given package in the same Python environment.

>     You can test the existance of the policy by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can test the existence of the policy by running:
```

    .. code-block:: bash

        python -c "from mypackage.subpackage import MyPolicy"

Admin-Side
~~~~~~~~~~

> An admin can distribute the Python package to users with pre-defined policy. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An admin can distribute the Python package to users with a pre-defined policy. The
```

> policy should follow the following interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
policy should implement the `sky.AdminPolicy` interface [add a link to master?]:
```

.. code-block:: python

    import sky

    class MyPolicy(sky.AdminPolicy):
        @classmethod
        def validate_and_mutate(cls, user_request: sky.UserRequest) -> sky.MutatedUserRequest:

>             # Logics for validate and modify user requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # Logic for validate and modify user requests.
```

            ...
            return sky.MutatedUserRequest(user_request.task,
                                          user_request.skypilot_config)

> ``UserRequest`` and ``MutatedUserRequest`` are defined as follows:

Reviewer: add link to GH

.. code-block:: python

    class UserRequest:
        """User request to the policy.

        It is a combination of a task, request options, and the global skypilot
        config used to run a task, including `sky launch / exec / jobs launch / ..`.

        Args:
            task: User specified task.
            skypilot_config: Global skypilot config to be used in this request.
            request_options: Request options. It can be None for jobs and

>                 services.

Reviewer: Need update

        """
        task: sky.Task
        skypilot_config: sky.Config
        operation_args: sky.RequestOptions

    class MutatedUserRequest:
        task: sky.Task
        skypilot_config: sky.Config

> That said, an ``AdminPolicy`` can mutate any fields of a user request, including
> the :ref:`task <yaml-spec>` and the :ref:`global skypilot config <config-yaml>`,
> giving admins a lot of flexibility to control user's SkyPilot usage.
> 
> An ``AdminPolicy`` is responsible to both validate and mutate user requests. If
> a request should be rejected, the policy should raise an exception.
> 
> The ``sky.Config`` and ``sky.RequestOptions`` are defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, an ``AdminPolicy`` can mutate any fields of a user request, including
the :ref:`task <yaml-spec>` and the :ref:`global skypilot config <config-yaml>`,
giving admins a lot of flexibility to control user's SkyPilot usage.

An ``AdminPolicy`` can be used to both validate and mutate user requests. If
a request should be rejected, the policy should raise an exception.

The ``sky.Config`` and ``sky.RequestOptions`` classes are defined as follows:
```

Reviewer: last line: link to GH?

.. code-block:: python

    class Config:
        def get_nested(self,
                       keys: Tuple[str, ...],
                       default_value: Any,
                       override_configs: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
            ) -> Any:
            """Gets a value with nested keys.
            
            If override_configs is provided, it value will be merged on top of
            the current config.
            """
            ...

        def set_nested(self, keys: Tuple[str, ...], value: Any) -> None:
            """Sets a value with nested keys."""
            ...

    @dataclass
    class RequestOptions:
        """Options a user specified in their request to SkyPilot."""
        cluster_name: Optional[str]
        cluster_exists: bool
        idle_minutes_to_autostop: Optional[int]
        down: bool
        dryrun: bool

Example Policies    
----------------

> 

Reviewer: Add a para : See example source code in [this GH link].

        @classmethod
        def validate_and_mutate(
                cls, user_request: sky.UserRequest) -> sky.MutatedUserRequest:
            """Enforces autostop for all tasks.
            
            Note that with this policy enforced, users can still change the autostop
            setting for an existing cluster by using `sky autostop`.
            """
            request_options = user_request.request_options

            # Request options is None when a task is executed with `jobs launch` or
            # `sky serve up`.
            if request_options is None:
                return sky.MutatedUserRequest(
                    task=user_request.task,
                    skypilot_config=user_request.skypilot_config)

            # Get the cluster record to operate on.
            cluster_record = sky.status(request_options.cluster_name, refresh=True)

            # Check if the user request should specify autostop settings.
            need_autostop = False

>             if not cluster_record:

Reviewer: is None

Reviewer: Also this code seems different from the source.

Reviewer: minor: Does sphinx have a quick way to link to source & expand?

Author: Good point! Changed to `literalinclude` to make it directly from source code for single source of truth.
